cds.outboxed (#603)
cap-js/docs: node.js/outbox.md

---
<!--- Migrated: @external/node.js/Messaging/0-index.md -> @external/node.js/messaging.md -->

# Outboxing with `cds.outboxed`

## Overview

> Often, remote operations should be delayed until the main transaction succeeded. Otherwise they're also triggered in case of a rollback.

Author: the 'remote operations'

> Often, remote operations should be delayed until the main transaction succeeded. Otherwise they're also triggered in case of a rollback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often, remote operations should be delayed until the main transaction succeeded. Otherwise, the remote operations are also triggered in case of a rollback.
```

To enable this, an outbox can be used to defer remote operations until the success of the current transaction.

Every CAP service can be _outboxed_, that means event dispatching becomes _asynchronous_. 

### Outboxing a Service

#### cds.outboxed(srv) {.method}

Programmatically, you can get the outboxed service with

```js
const srv = await cds.connect.to('yourService')
const outboxed = cds.outboxed(srv)

await outboxed.emit('someEvent', { some: 'message' }) // asynchronous
await outboxed.send('someEvent', { some: 'message' }) // asynchronous
```

::: tip

> You still need to `await` these operations, because messages might be stored in a database first, inside your main transaction.

Reviewer: Is this still correct?
```suggestion
You still need to `await` these operations inside your main transaction, because messages might be stored in a database first.
```

Author: I think this changes the meaning a bit, no? You have to `await` those operations. Then they are stored in the database, together with the main transaction.

Reviewer: That's why I was asking. To me it'd mean the same :)
```suggestion
You still need to `await` these operations. Then the messages are stored in the database, together with the main transaction.
```

:::

The `cds.outboxed` function can also be called with optional configuration options.

```js
const outboxed = cds.outboxed(srv, { kind: 'persistent-outbox' })
```

::: warning
The persistent outbox can only be used if it's enabled globally with `cds.requires.outbox = true` because it requires a dedicated database table.
:::

::: warning

> Once you outboxed a service, you cannot override its outbox configuration options again.

Reviewer: Does that mean, if I outboxed a service w/o optional configuration, I can't add configuration later on? Or is it just not possible to remove optional configuration?

Author: Yes, that is correct. The following would not be allowed

```js
const o1 = cds.outboxed(srv)
const o2 = cds.outboxed(srv, { maxRetries: 1000 })
```

Reviewer: So later means, later in the same process and not later at another point in time? I was assuming that it's more time-related and if I want to change sth related to outbox later on, I'd need to rename a service or sth like that. Too complicated thoughts, right? ;)

Author: Temporal later. If this code is called again with different settings, those options are not taken into account. In another process, it could be that it is taken into account by accident... So the general guideline should be not to use it with different options.

Reviewer: I think I understand. It seems pretty hard to ensure that this doesn't happen with multiple people working on the same project. Isn't it? Do we have support for that, like in the editor or so?

:::

#### Per Configuration

You can also configure services to be outboxed by default:

```json
{
  "requires": {
    "yourService": {
      "kind": "odata",
      "outbox": {
        "kind": "persistent-outbox"

>       }

Reviewer: Can this also be `"outbox": "true"`? I'd assume that this would use the persistent outbox as default.

Author: Yes, it can also be `outbox: true`, then the config from `cds.requires.outbox` is used (not necessarily persistent-outbox).

Reviewer: But here it's just about outboxing and not explicitly about persistent-outbox, right? Or is it more common, that if I do config on service level, that I specify it?

Author: That's true, one can set it to either `true` (in that case, the `cds.requires.outbox` settings are used) or to a specific outbox. Yes, it probably makes sense to set it to `true` here.

```js
const srv = await cds.connect.to('yourService')
const outboxed = cds.outboxed(srv)

await outboxed.emit('someEvent', { some: 'message' }) // asynchronous
await outboxed.send('someEvent', { some: 'message' }) // asynchronous
```

::: tip
You still need to `await` these operations. Then the messages are stored in the database, together with the main transaction.
:::

The `cds.outboxed` function can also be called with optional configuration options.

```js
const outboxed = cds.outboxed(srv, { kind: 'persistent-outbox' })
```

> The persistent outbox can only be used if it's enabled globally with `cds.requires.outbox = true` because it requires a dedicated database table.

::: warning One-time configuration
Once you outboxed a service, you cannot override its outbox configuration options again.
:::

### cds.unboxed(srv) {.method}

Use this on an outboxed service to get back the original service:

```js
const unboxed = cds.unboxed(srv)
```

This is useful if your service is outboxed per configuration.

### Per Configuration

You can also configure services to be outboxed by default:

```json
{
  "requires": {
    "yourService": {
      "kind": "odata",

>       "outbox": {
>         "kind": "persistent-outbox"
>       }

Author: ```suggestion
      "outbox": true
```
